**Graphic Code V.1.2**, is an open source tool for handling PRKN gene graphics with the Python language. It was implemented to develop figures for the article entitled **“PRKN gene introns in families from Order Primates show common Open Reading Frames”**, which is submitted to the IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics. 

As input file, a DataFrame is created, both for Introns and Exons, with the Pandas library and based on an Excel file (.xlsx format). Subsequently, the mean and standard deviation are calculated. With these data, the standard error of the mean is determined. The Intron and Exon data were organized in a format suitable for graphing and analysis. For Introns, the average (the mean of each column), and the error (the standard error of each column), were calculated. Similarly, this process was performed for the Exon columns.

Consecutively, a list of numbered Intron names was created, the average data was extracted and transformed from the Pandas library to a list. In the same way, the standard error was extracted and transformed. Similarly, the same was done with the Exons, extracting the same data (average and standard error). The default style of the graphs is configured. A figure was created with two subgraphs, each corresponding to Exons and Introns, which are placed horizontally. In addition, the size of the plots and the writing font within the figure were set. The intron data were added to the left plot, numbered, and the average data were added, plotted together with the error data, which are shown in a black bar. In this case, the average determines the height and the error the length of the bar. The graph is drawn with blue color to represent this information.

Similarly, the data of the Exons are taken, and these are placed in the graph on the right, considering only the data from 1 to 11, this time it is drawn with a green color. Exon number 12 is taken, and being a significantly higher average, it is represented in a different and secondary axis, associated to the graph on the right (its respective graph). Similarly, its standard error is added. The data are customized by showing the scale of exons 1 to 11 on the main axis and, on the secondary axis, the scale of Exon 12. A function is used to ensure that the data do not overlap. Subsequently, the figure is saved in a TIFF file and also printed on the screen.
